#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass achemso
\begin_preamble
%\usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\usepackage{amssymb}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% User specified LaTeX commands.
\newcommand{\ie}{\textit{i.~e.} }
\newcommand{\cref}{c^{\ominus}}
%\newcommand{\cs}{c_{s}}
\newcommand{\kT}{k_\mathrm{B}T}
\newcommand{\kB}{k_\mathrm{B}}
\newcommand{\lb}{l_\mathrm{B}}
\newcommand{\NA}{N_{\mathrm{A^-}}}
\newcommand{\muna}{\mu_\mathrm{Na^+}}

\newcommand{\mucl}{\mu_\mathrm{Cl^-}}
\newcommand{\muca}{\mu_\mathrm{Ca^{2+}}}
\newcommand{\muh}{\mu_\mathrm{H^+}}
\newcommand{\mua}{\mu_\mathrm{A^-}}
\newcommand{\muha}{\mu_\mathrm{HA}}
\newcommand{\muoh}{\mu_\mathrm{OH}}

\newcommand{\cna}{c_\mathrm{Na^+}}
\newcommand{\ccl}{c_\mathrm{Cl^-}}
\newcommand{\cca}{c_\mathrm{Ca^{2+}}}
\newcommand{\ch}{c_\mathrm{H^+}}
\newcommand{\cp}{c_\mathrm{p}}
\newcommand{\nna}{N_\mathrm{Na^+}}
\newcommand{\ncl}{N_\mathrm{Cl^-}}
\newcommand{\nca}{N_\mathrm{Ca^{2+}}}

\newcommand{\superin}{^\mathrm{in}}
\newcommand{\subin}{_\mathrm{in}}
\newcommand{\subi}{_\mathrm{i}}

\newcommand{\gel}{_\mathrm{gel}}
\newcommand{\tot}{_\mathrm{tot}}
\newcommand{\out}{_{out}}
\newcommand{\coh}{c_\mathrm{OH}}
\newcommand{\bulk}{^{\mathrm{b}}}
\renewcommand{\H}{\mathrm{H^+}}
\newcommand{\A}{\mathrm{A^-}}
\newcommand{\AH}{\mathrm{AH}}
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% LyX specific LaTeX commands.
%% A simple dot to overcome graphicx limitations
\newcommand{\lyxdot}{.}
\newcommand{\todoi}[1]{\todo[inline]{#1}}


\newcommand{\cl}{\mathrm{Cl^-}}
\newcommand{\br}{\mathrm{Br^-}}
\newcommand{\na}{\mathrm{Na^+}}
\newcommand{\h}{\mathrm{H^+}}
\newcommand{\ka}{\mathrm{K^+}}
\newcommand{\oh}{\mathrm{OH^-}}
\newcommand{\ca}{\mathrm{Ca^{2+}}}
\newcommand{\mg}{\mathrm{Mg^{2+}}}
\newcommand{\so}{\mathrm{SO_4^{2-}}}

\newcommand{\EI}{E_{\mathrm{I}}}
\newcommand{\EII}{E_{\mathrm{II}}}
\newcommand{\SI}{S_{\mathrm{I}}}
\newcommand{\SII}{S_{\mathrm{II}}}
\newcommand{\NI}{N_{\mathrm{I}}}
\newcommand{\NII}{N_{\mathrm{II}}}
\newcommand{\VI}{V_{\mathrm{I}}}
\newcommand{\VII}{V_{\mathrm{II}}}
\newcommand{\FI}{F_{\mathrm{I}}}
\newcommand{\FII}{F_{\mathrm{II}}}
\newcommand{\nnaI}{N^{\na}_{\mathrm{I}}}
\newcommand{\nclI}{N^{\cl}_{\mathrm{I}}}
\newcommand{\nnaII}{N^{\na}_{\mathrm{II}}}
\newcommand{\nclII}{N^{\cl}_{\mathrm{II}}}




\newcommand{\Ka}{K_{\mathrm{A}}}
\newcommand{\pKa}{\mathrm{p}\Ka}
\newcommand{\pK}{\mathrm{p}K}
\newcommand{\pH}{\mathrm{pH}}
\newcommand{\mol}{\mathrm{mol}}
\newcommand{\molperl}{\mathrm{mol/l}}
\newcommand{\kg}{\mathrm{kg}}
\newcommand{\res}{^{\mathrm{res}}}
\newcommand{\pHres}{\pH\res}
\newcommand{\pHgel}{\pH\gel}
\newcommand{\cs}{c_{\mathrm{s}}}
%\newcommand{\cs}{c_{\mathrm{salt}}}
\newcommand{\csres}{\cs\res}
\newcommand{\Vgel}{V\gel}
\newcommand{\Pgel}{P\gel}
\newcommand{\Pres}{P\res}
\newcommand{\Vout}{V\out}
\newcommand{\Vbox}{V\tot}
\newcommand{\PE}{polyelectrolyte{}}

\newcommand{\reffig}[1]{Figure~\ref{#1}}
\newcommand{\refeq}[1]{Equation~\ref{#1}{}}
\usepackage{afterpage}
\newcommand\blankpage{%
    \null
    \thispagestyle{empty}%
    \addtocounter{page}{-1}%
    \newpage}


\newcommand{\mytitle}{Gibbs ensemble for \PE{} hydrogel}
\newcommand{\etal}{\textit{et al.}{}}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options false
\begin_modules
theorems-ams
\end_modules
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package none
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding default
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_bookmarks false
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered false
\pdf_bookmarksopen false
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 1
\pdf_breaklinks true
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks true
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 0
\use_package cancel 0
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 0
\use_package mathtools 0
\use_package mhchem 0
\use_package stackrel 0
\use_package stmaryrd 0
\use_package undertilde 0
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 1.5cm
\topmargin 1cm
\rightmargin 1.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Water desalination using polyelectrolyte hydrogel.
 Gibbs ensemble modelling.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Michail Laktionov
\end_layout

\begin_layout Affiliation
Department of Physical and Macromolecular Chemistry, Faculty of Science,
 Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic
\begin_inset Argument 1
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
cuni
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Also Affiliation
St.
 Petersburg National Research University of Information Technologies, Mechanics
 and Optics, St.
 Petersburg, Russia.
\begin_inset Argument 1
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
itmo
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Oleg V.
 Rud
\end_layout

\begin_layout Affiliation
Department of Physical and Macromolecular Chemistry, Faculty of Science,
 Charles University in Prague, Czech Republic
\end_layout

\begin_layout Also Affiliation
Institute of Macromolecular Compounds of Russian Academy of Sciences, Saint-Pete
rsburg, Russia
\begin_inset Argument 1
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
imc
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Email
helvrud@gmail.com
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abbreviations
MC, MD
\end_layout

\begin_layout Keywords
desalination, hydrogel, polyelectrolye, simulation 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Recently polyelectrolyte hydrogels have been proposed as draw agents for
 reverse osmosis desalination techniques.
 Indeed, polyelectrolyte hydrogels have the ability to absorb a big amount
 of water across forward osmosis membrane as a result of their swelling
 pressure.
 The insoluble cross-linked network of the gel enables dewatering under
 the influence of stimuli (thermal and/or mechanical).
 On the other hand, the network structure of a polymer hydrogel from a thermodyn
amic perspective is already an osmotic membrane.
 So hydrogel microparticles may allow to completely avoid the osmotic membranes
 in forward osmosis and use microfiltration instead.
 By this article, we present our recent theoretical study of the use of
 polyelectrolyte hydrogel for water desalination.
 We modeled the thermodynamic equilibrium of coexistence of the gel and
 the aqueous salt solution in the so-called closed ensemble, in which the
 total amount of ions is assumed to be constant.
 We modeled the compression of the gel and the associated with that release
 of the solution.
 We have shown that the squeezed out solution has a little lower salinity
 than that the gel was equilibrated with.
 Also, we performed a set of simulations modeling the process of continuous
 decrease of water salinity up to freshwater concentrations.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
